ID||Gene||Variation||Class||Text||Score
0 || FAM58A || truncating mutations || 1 || here, we deorphanize cdk10 by identifying cyclin m, the product of fam58a, as a binding partner.  mutations in this gene that predict absence or truncation of cyclin m are associated with star syndrome, whose features include toe syndactyly, telecanthus, and anogenital and renal malformations in heterozygous females (10).  however, both the functions of cyclin m and the pathogenesis of star syndrome remain unknown. an interaction phenotype was also observed between full-length cyclin m and cdk10 proteins expressed as bait and prey, respectively ( s1a).  we then tested different isoforms of cdk10 and cyclin m originating from alternative gene splicing, and two truncated cyclin m proteins corresponding to the hypothetical products of two mutated fam58a genes found in star syndrome patients (10).  none of these shorter isoforms produced interaction phenotypes ( 1 a and c and  s1a). we uncover a cyclin m-dependent cdk10 protein kinase activity in vitro, thus demonstrating that this protein, which was named a cdk on the sole basis of its amino acid sequence, is indeed a genuine cyclin-dependent kinase.  our y2h assays reveal that truncated cyclin m proteins corresponding to the hypothetical products of two star syndrome-associated fam58a mutations do not produce an interaction phenotype with cdk10.  hence, regardless of whether these mutated mrnas undergo nonsense-mediated decay (as suggested from the decreased cyclin m mrna levels in star cells, shown in  5b) or give rise to truncated cyclin m proteins, females affected by the star syndrome must exhibit compromised cdk10/cyclin m kinase activity at least in some tissues and during specific developmental stages. || 2
1 || CBL || w802* || 2 ||  the c-cbl loh also positively correlated with egfr and met mutations observed in the same samples.  using select c-cbl somatic mutations such as s80n/h94y, q249e and w802* (obtained from caucasian, taiwanese and african-american samples, respectively) transfected in nsclc cell lines, there was increased cell viability and cell motility.   conclusions  taking the overall mutation rate of c-cbl to be a combination as somatic missense mutation and loh, it is clear that c-cbl is highly mutated in lung cancers and may play an essential role in lung tumorigenesis and metastasis.  given the critical role of cbl in normal homeostasis and cancer, we hypothesized that it might be mutated in lung cancers.  in this study, we report novel c-cbl somatic mutations s80n/h94y, q249e and w802* in caucasian, taiwanese and african-american lung cancer patients, respectively.  expressing these mutations in nsclc cell lines lead to increased proliferation and cell motility.  plasmid constructs and site-directed mutagenesis  the wild-type c-cbl cdna insert was subcloned into the paltermax expression vector using xhoi and sali restriction enzyme sites (promega, madison, wi).  using this parental plasmid paltermax-c-cbl, the tkb domain double mutation (s80n/h94y), the point mutation (q249e), and the c-terminal point mutation w802* of c-cbl were created using the following primers: 5′-gctggcgctaaagaataacccaccttatatcttagac-3′ and 5′-ctaccagatacctaccagtatctccgtactatcttgtc-3′ for the double mutation s80n/h94y; 5′-ctttacccgactctttgagccctggtcctctttgc-3′ for q249e, and 5′-cagctcctcctttggctgattgtctctggatggtgatc-3′ for w802* along with their complementary primers using the quickchange site-directed mutagenesis xl kit (stratagene, la jolla, ca) according to the manufacturer's instructions.  the constructs were confirmed for the point mutations by standard dna sequencing of both strands.  transfection of c-cbl constructs  the a549 cell line was transfected using the fugene hd (roche, nutley, nj) reagent according to the manufacturer's instructions.  eight µg of plasmid dna, containing either no insert (empty vector), wild-type c-cbl, s80n/h94y c-cbl, q249e c-cbl or w802* cbl was used for transfection in a 6-well culture plate.  cells were harvested 48 h after transfection and analyzed for expression.  table 1 table 1 c-cbl mutation analysis in 119 lung cancer patient tumor tissues.  three of the 8 novel non-synonymous mutations were located in the tkb (tyrosine kinase binding) domain (s80n, h94y, and q249e), one in the ring finger domain (v391i), one in the proline-rich region (72515_72517 del atg), and three in the c-terminal region (w802*, r830k, and a848t) of the c-cbl protein (figure 1a and figure s1).  in figure 1b, we show model chromatograms of representative samples. effect on lung cancer cell viability the effect of a representative c-cbl mutant from each of the three ethnic backgrounds on lung cancer cell viability in cell lines was determined.  s80n/h94y double mutation, q249e, and w802* were identified in lung tumor samples obtained from a caucasian, a taiwanese and an african-american, respectively.  as described in methods, the c-cbl wild-type (wt) and the above three mutants were expressed after cloning them into paltermax vector in a549 cells. transfection efficiency was comparable between different groups and the number of cells transfected with c-cbl wild-type construct was about 70% compared to control cells that were transfected with the empty vector.  cells transfected with s80n/h94y, q249e and w802* c-cbl mutant constructs resulted in increased number of viable cells that was %, % and % higher respectively, relative to the empty vector control transfected cells and significantly different from the wild-type construct (p = , p = , and p = , respectively) (figure 3b).  relative levels of c-cbl protein in whole cell lysates prepared from samples obtained from a parallel experiment was determined.   effect on cell cycle to investigate if the increases in cell viability in different c-cbl mutants are due to increased cellular proliferation, a cell cycle analysis was performed.  a549 cells were transfected with the c-cbl wt or the three different mutants: s80n/h94y, q249e and w802*.  the empty vector transfectant was used as a control. there was no significant change in the subg1, g1 or the s phase of the cell cycle among the different mutants compared to the wt construct (p = , p = , and p = , respectively).  the g2/m phase of the cell cycle showed an increase in cell numbers for the three mutants, s80n/h94y, q249e and w802*, when compared to the wt but again the difference was not statistically significant (p = ) (figure 3d).   d. we also determined the rate of wound closure for all the five groups.  at 48 h, wild-type c-cbl transfectants showed % open wound while the s80n/h94y, q249e and w802* mutants showed %, % and % open wound respectively (p<) (figure 4b).   figure 4 figure 4 c-cbl mutations affect wound healing in a549 cells. in addition, 8 mutants that we detected were found in different ethnic backgrounds.  for example, s80n/h94y, q249e, w802* were detected in caucasians, taiwanese and african-americans, respectively.  the results point out not only the difference between lung cancer and other cancers, but also genetic polymorphism among different races in the same cancer. in lung cancers the relevant substrates of c-cbl in terms of degradation or signal transduction are yet to be identified.   the observation that c-cbl somatic mutations, especially s80n/h94y, q249e and w802* showed increased cell viability and cell motility that is in agreement with the physiological role for d-cbl in the regulation of apoptosis and differentiation identified in drosophila is very significant [33].  it has been previously shown that activating c-cbl mutation downregulates egfr signaling and decreases cellular proliferation and migration in breast cancer cell lines [34]. || 1
2 || CBL || q249e || 2 ||  the c-cbl loh also positively correlated with egfr and met mutations observed in the same samples.  using select c-cbl somatic mutations such as s80n/h94y, q249e and w802* (obtained from caucasian, taiwanese and african-american samples, respectively) transfected in nsclc cell lines, there was increased cell viability and cell motility.   conclusions  taking the overall mutation rate of c-cbl to be a combination as somatic missense mutation and loh, it is clear that c-cbl is highly mutated in lung cancers and may play an essential role in lung tumorigenesis and metastasis.  given the critical role of cbl in normal homeostasis and cancer, we hypothesized that it might be mutated in lung cancers.  in this study, we report novel c-cbl somatic mutations s80n/h94y, q249e and w802* in caucasian, taiwanese and african-american lung cancer patients, respectively.  expressing these mutations in nsclc cell lines lead to increased proliferation and cell motility.  plasmid constructs and site-directed mutagenesis  the wild-type c-cbl cdna insert was subcloned into the paltermax expression vector using xhoi and sali restriction enzyme sites (promega, madison, wi).  using this parental plasmid paltermax-c-cbl, the tkb domain double mutation (s80n/h94y), the point mutation (q249e), and the c-terminal point mutation w802* of c-cbl were created using the following primers: 5′-gctggcgctaaagaataacccaccttatatcttagac-3′ and 5′-ctaccagatacctaccagtatctccgtactatcttgtc-3′ for the double mutation s80n/h94y; 5′-ctttacccgactctttgagccctggtcctctttgc-3′ for q249e, and 5′-cagctcctcctttggctgattgtctctggatggtgatc-3′ for w802* along with their complementary primers using the quickchange site-directed mutagenesis xl kit (stratagene, la jolla, ca) according to the manufacturer's instructions.  the constructs were confirmed for the point mutations by standard dna sequencing of both strands.  transfection of c-cbl constructs  the a549 cell line was transfected using the fugene hd (roche, nutley, nj) reagent according to the manufacturer's instructions.  eight µg of plasmid dna, containing either no insert (empty vector), wild-type c-cbl, s80n/h94y c-cbl, q249e c-cbl or w802* cbl was used for transfection in a 6-well culture plate.  cells were harvested 48 h after transfection and analyzed for expression.  table 1 table 1 c-cbl mutation analysis in 119 lung cancer patient tumor tissues.  three of the 8 novel non-synonymous mutations were located in the tkb (tyrosine kinase binding) domain (s80n, h94y, and q249e), one in the ring finger domain (v391i), one in the proline-rich region (72515_72517 del atg), and three in the c-terminal region (w802*, r830k, and a848t) of the c-cbl protein (figure 1a and figure s1).  in figure 1b, we show model chromatograms of representative samples. effect on lung cancer cell viability the effect of a representative c-cbl mutant from each of the three ethnic backgrounds on lung cancer cell viability in cell lines was determined.  s80n/h94y double mutation, q249e, and w802* were identified in lung tumor samples obtained from a caucasian, a taiwanese and an african-american, respectively.  as described in methods, the c-cbl wild-type (wt) and the above three mutants were expressed after cloning them into paltermax vector in a549 cells. transfection efficiency was comparable between different groups and the number of cells transfected with c-cbl wild-type construct was about 70% compared to control cells that were transfected with the empty vector.  cells transfected with s80n/h94y, q249e and w802* c-cbl mutant constructs resulted in increased number of viable cells that was %, % and % higher respectively, relative to the empty vector control transfected cells and significantly different from the wild-type construct (p = , p = , and p = , respectively) (figure 3b).  relative levels of c-cbl protein in whole cell lysates prepared from samples obtained from a parallel experiment was determined.   effect on cell cycle to investigate if the increases in cell viability in different c-cbl mutants are due to increased cellular proliferation, a cell cycle analysis was performed.  a549 cells were transfected with the c-cbl wt or the three different mutants: s80n/h94y, q249e and w802*.  the empty vector transfectant was used as a control. there was no significant change in the subg1, g1 or the s phase of the cell cycle among the different mutants compared to the wt construct (p = , p = , and p = , respectively).  the g2/m phase of the cell cycle showed an increase in cell numbers for the three mutants, s80n/h94y, q249e and w802*, when compared to the wt but again the difference was not statistically significant (p = ) (figure 3d).   d. we also determined the rate of wound closure for all the five groups.  at 48 h, wild-type c-cbl transfectants showed % open wound while the s80n/h94y, q249e and w802* mutants showed %, % and % open wound respectively (p<) (figure 4b).   figure 4 figure 4 c-cbl mutations affect wound healing in a549 cells. in addition, 8 mutants that we detected were found in different ethnic backgrounds.  for example, s80n/h94y, q249e, w802* were detected in caucasians, taiwanese and african-americans, respectively.  the results point out not only the difference between lung cancer and other cancers, but also genetic polymorphism among different races in the same cancer. in lung cancers the relevant substrates of c-cbl in terms of degradation or signal transduction are yet to be identified.   the observation that c-cbl somatic mutations, especially s80n/h94y, q249e and w802* showed increased cell viability and cell motility that is in agreement with the physiological role for d-cbl in the regulation of apoptosis and differentiation identified in drosophila is very significant [33].  it has been previously shown that activating c-cbl mutation downregulates egfr signaling and decreases cellular proliferation and migration in breast cancer cell lines [34]. || 1
3 || CBL || n454d || 3 ||  most of the changes were novel, although 4 cases had r420q as previously identified in a single case of aml. 15 apart from n454d, all residues affected by missense mutations were completely conserved in cbl orthologues as well as the 2 other human cbl family members (figure 3).  the mutation to a stop codon was found in a patient (upn 9) who also had the y371h variant; pcr across the affected regions and sequencing indicated that the 2 changes were on different alleles. in contrast, wild-type cbl conferred no growth advantage either with or without flt3 overexpression.  the n454d change was not transforming, indicating that it is probably a rare polymorphism or a pathogenetically unimportant passenger mutation (figure 7).  reproducible differences in survival between the different mutants were seen, as illustrated in figure 8a.15 we found that transforming activity correlated directly with the ubiquitin ligase activity of the cbl variants, as assayed by their ability to transfer ha-tagged ubiquitin to flt3 after stimulation with flt3 ligand.  the s376f, h398y, p417a and r420q mutants showed loss of ubiquitin ligase activity, whereas n454d was comparable to wild-type cbl (figure 8b).   discussion  the initial aim of our study was to identify large regions of aupd and therefore we undertook a relatively low resolution genome scan using 50k snp arrays.30 although the precise amino acid substitutions we identified were different from those studied, we found that mutations in both the ring finger and linker regions conferred autonomous growth to 32d/wt-flt3 cells, consistent with a causal relationship to the mpn phenotype.  the fact that one mutation (n454d) was not transforming emphasizes the importance of functional analysis to distinguish driver mutations from irrelevant passengers or infrequent polymorphisms. 31 notably, this mutation was only weakly conserved between species, in contrast to all other missense mutations that affected highly conserved residues and are therefore likely to be functionally significant. alternatively, heterozygosity in these cases may only be apparent due to variable proportions of background normal cells that are not part of the malignant clone.  although the nontransforming n454d mutant was heterozygous, 2 cases with heterozygous r420q were observed and thus absence of homozygosity cannot be used to infer the presence of an irrelevant, nontransforming sequence variant.   in summary, we have found that oncogenic cbl mutations are acquired in a subset of hematologically related, poor prognosis mpns. || 1
4 || CBL || l399v || 4 ||  all mutations from the second group were predicted to be benign according to our computational models, whereas v430m, consistent with experimental data, had a borderline destabilizing impact on cbl-e2 binding (table 1).   finally, the third group constituted mutations (l399v, g375p, p395a and v391i) which attenuated the cbl e3 activity according to the relative densitometry data ( 3b).  only one of these mutants was observed in two cancer samples while other three belonged to the single mutation class. concordant with this, there were intermediate levels of egfr ( 3a).  g375p and p395a mutations were predicted to have partially damaging effects while v391i and l399v were classified as benign in our predictions.  interestingly, mutations from this third group affected only some of the cbl states. || 1
5 || CBL || v391i || 4 ||  all mutations from the second group were predicted to be benign according to our computational models, whereas v430m, consistent with experimental data, had a borderline destabilizing impact on cbl-e2 binding (table 1).   finally, the third group constituted mutations (l399v, g375p, p395a and v391i) which attenuated the cbl e3 activity according to the relative densitometry data ( 3b).  only one of these mutants was observed in two cancer samples while other three belonged to the single mutation class. concordant with this, there were intermediate levels of egfr ( 3a).  g375p and p395a mutations were predicted to have partially damaging effects while v391i and l399v were classified as benign in our predictions.  interestingly, mutations from this third group affected only some of the cbl states. || 1
6 || CBL || v430m || 5 ||  salt bridges are shown as dashed lines and in both cases mutation affects the stability by disrupting the salt bridge.  the second group of mutants (m374v, v430m, p428l, q249e and double mutant s80n/h94y) maintained the cbl activity equivalent to or greater than wild-type cbl (relative densitometry of 80% or higher) ( 3b).  consistent with this, the levels of the activated egfr were also decreased in these samples ( 3a). for example, the q249e mutant showed an increased ubiquitination of egfr in 293t and hela cells while the m374v mutant resulted in higher ubiquitination levels in a549 and hela cells (figure 3 and s6).  only v430m mutant was on the borderline with the densitometry ratio of .  all mutations from the second group were predicted to be benign according to our computational models, whereas v430m, consistent with experimental data, had a borderline destabilizing impact on cbl-e2 binding (table 1). || 1
7 || CBL || deletion || 1 ||  the oncogenic potential of identified mutants was evaluated in hematopoietic cells.  results:we identified 3 of 279 aml/mds patients expressingcbl exon 8/9 deletion mutants.  three of four cases at diagnosis expressed deleted transcripts missing exon 8 or exon 8/9. one of 116 sequenced aml/mds cases carried a r420g missense mutation.  all aml/mds patients with identified cbl mutants belonged to the core bindingfactor and 11q deletion aml subtypes.  functionally, cbl negatively regulated fmslike tyrosine kinase 3 (flt3) activity and interacted with human flt3 via the autophosphorylation sitesy589 andy599 and colocalized in vivo. cbl oncogenes were initially identified in the murine system.  cbl-70z, carrying an internal deletion of 17 amino acids, was isolated from the 70z/ 3 mouse pre-b-cell lymphoma cell line (4).  cbl-70z deregulates the cellular tyrosine kinase machinery, as nih3t3 serumstarved cells expressing cbl-70z showed significantly increased endothelial growth factor receptor (egfr) kinase activity after egf stimulation (5). © 2009 american association for cancer in the ring finger domain (8, 9) and was shown to inhibit fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 (flt3) internalization and ubiquitylation (7).  additional screenings of aml patients revealed more cases with cbl mutations, including internal deletions of exon 8 and point mutations targeting g375 (10, 11).  activating flt3 mutations represent one of the most common genetic alterations in aml and are associated with a poor prognosis (12). cbl is part of the human flt3 downstream signaling pathway and promoted down-regulation of flt3 activity.  finally, cbl deletion mutants cbldexon8 and cbl exon8/9 transformed ba/f3 cells in the presence, but not in the absence of flt3-wt.  materials and methods analysis of cell lines and patient samples. translational relevance in this article we provide detailed insight into the role of oncogenic cbl exon8/9 mutations in the pathogenesis of acute myeloid leukemia (aml)/myelodysplastic syndrome (mds), but we could not find cbl mutations in our acute lymphoblastic leukemia cohort.  analysis of a large cohort of aml/mds patients of different cytogenetic subgroups revealed an overall low frequency of cbl exon 8+9 deletions of %.  however, we identified preferential association of cbl exon8/9 mutations with core bindingfactor leukemias and 11q aberrations.  we describe that all known human cbl deletion mutants lead to transformation of wild-type flt3 ^ expressing hematopoietic cells.  this phenotype resembles that seen with activated receptor tyrosine kinases. recent reports have indicated a putative contribution of cbl mutations to the pathogenesis of human leukemias (7, 10).  to obtain a comprehensive insight into the role of cbl in human acute leukemias, we firstly did a pcr screening of the cdna of 61aml and 21acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) cell lines (table 1; supplementary table s1) for deletions in the linker and ring finger domains.  we identified a monoallelic cbl deletion transcript in the aml cell line molm-13 and the sister cell line molm-14. among 279 aml samples of different cytogenetic subtypes and 21t-cell all samples we detected three aml/mds patients expressing cblwt as well as an aberrant cbl transcript (table 1b).  patient 1 with a t(8;21) (aml1/eto positive) and patient 2 with an 11q deletion both expressed a cbl transcript lacking exon 8, and patient 3 with an inv(16) (cbfb/myh11 positive) expressed cbl lacking exon 8 and 9 (table 1b;  1a).  by pcr fragment analysis we determined the relative expression of mutant versus cbl-wt. aberrant cbl transcripts could not be detected in any of the analyzed all cell lines and all patient samples.  a murine cbl deletion transcript has been described in the 70z/3 b-cell lymphoma cell line (cbl-70z lacking the first 17 amino acids of exon 8; ref.  4). in the 70z/3 line the causative event is a splice site mutation, changing the splice acceptor site ag to cg, generating an alternative splice site, which excludes the first 17 amino acids of exon 8 ( 1a).  analysis of the genomic dna of molm-13 cells detected a deletion of 14 nucleotides at the exon 8/intron 8 boundary eliminating a table 1.  a. by amplifying a 8,050-bp fragment of genomic dna spanning intron 6 to exon 11 and subsequent nucleotide sequencing, we detected mutations in all three patients expressing aberrant cbl transcripts (data not shown).  one allele of patient 1(cbldexon8) harbored a deletion of 43 nucleotides at the exon 8-intron 8 boundary, including the last 36 nucleotides of exon 8 and the first 7 nucleotides of intron 8, thereby losing the whole splice donor site of intron 8.  analysis of the genomic dna of patient 2 (cbldexon8) revealed a point mutation of the splice donor site of intron 8, changing the conserved ‘‘gt’’ to ‘‘gc’’ in about 10% of the amplified dna. the sample from patient 2 contained only 20% blasts, suggesting that this mutation occurred in one of the cbl alleles of the malignant clone.  patient 3 (cbldexon8+9) carries a monoallelic large genomic deletion of 1,680 nucleotides, starting in intron 7 and ending in intron 9 leading to the loss of exon 8 and 9.  in conclusion, all cbl transcripts, which lack whole exons, can be explained by genomic events that target splice donor or acceptor sites by mutations or deletions. tkb, tyrosine kinase binding domain; pr, proline-rich domain.  shown below are the cbl deletion mutants, cbldexon8 and cbldexon8+9, found in aml patients, cbl-70z, a known oncogenic form of cbl, comprisinga deletion of the first 17 amino acids within exon 8, and the location of r420, found to be mutated in one aml patient in our study.  red squares, mutated region within the cbl protein. b, gel electrophoresis of cdna pcr products amplified with primers spanning the sequences encodingthe linker and ring finger domains of cbl-wt.  patient samples at diagnosis and each two remission controls of patient 1and patient 3 were analyzed for deletions.  molm-13 cells served as a positive control. however, coexpression of cbl-70z, cbldexon8 or cbldexon8+9 with flt3-wt led to significant il-3 independent proliferation ( 3a).  compared with the cbl deletion mutants, expression of cbl r420g, r420q, g375s, and g375p point mutants did not confer any proliferative capacity, but enhanced cell survival, as 50% of cells survived for 3 days after il-3 withdrawal compared with 10% survival of the control cells (data not shown).  the presence of flt3 ligand induced a strong dosedependent proliferation of flt3-wt/cbl-70z, flt3-wt/ cbldexon8, and flt3-wt/cbldexon8+9 cotransduced cells  2. collectively, the overexpression of cbl-70z, cbldexon8 or cbldexon8+9 in flt3-wt –expressing ba/f3 cells led to factor independent growth and flt3 ligand– dependent hyperproliferation.  coexpression of cbl deletion mutants with flt3-wt autoactivates the flt3 receptor.  the known classes of flt3 mutations have been shown to autoactivate the kinase activity of flt3 (16, 27– 30).  we prepared lysates of flt3 ligand – stimulated and nonstimulated ba/f3 cells coexpressing flt3- wt and a cbl deletion mutant, immunoprecipitated the flt3 receptor, and analyzed it for tyrosine phosphorylation.  in contrast to flt3-wt- or flt3-wt/cbl-wt –expressing cells, all three cbl mutant–expressing cells displayed autophosphorylated flt3 in the absence of flt3 ligand ( 4a). stimulation with flt3 ligand induced high phosphorylation levels of flt3  3.  cbl deletion mutants induce a transformingpotential in flt3-wt ^ expressingba/f3 cells and respond to flt3 ptk inhibitor treatment a, cells stably transduced with flt3-wtalone or flt3-wtand cbl-wt, cbl-70z, cbldexon8 or cbldexon8+9 were cultured in the absence of il3 for 72 h and viable cells counted after trypan blue exclusion.  b, cells were analyzed accordingto a, but different concentrations of fl up to 100 ng/ml were added to the culture medium. the amount of phosphorylated flt3 in flt3-wt/cbl mutant–expressing cells was considerably higher than in control cells, as was the amount of total flt3 protein.  this confirms the hypothesis that coexpression of a cbl deletion mutant, but not cbl-wt, leads to a remarkable stabilization of the flt3 protein within the cells by inhibiting the down-regulation and degradation of the flt3 protein.  analysis of the phosphorylation status of transduced cbl in flt3-wt/cbl mutant –expressing cells revealed that all cbl mutants became phosphorylated after stimulation of the cells with flt3 ligand ( 4b). activated stat5 and akt were detected in unstimulated flt3-wt/cbl-70z-,  4.  coexpression of cbl deletion mutants autoactivates flt3, cbl mutants, and the downstream signaling pathways stat5 and akta, mock, flt3-wt, flt3-wt/cbl-wt, flt3-wt/cbl-70z, flt3-wt/cbldexon8, and flt3-wt/ cbldexon8+9 cells were starved for 24 h in the presence of % fcs and unstimulated or stimulated with 100 ng/ml flt3 ligand for 5 min.  flt3 was immunoprecipitated with polyclonal flt3 antibody and analyzed by immunoblottingwith phospho-tyrosine antibody, stripped, and reprobed with flt3 antibody. © 2009 american association for cancer normal hematopoietic tissues did not show aberrant cbl transcripts, further pointing to an oncogenic event in the malignant clone.  indeed, all three patients carried genomic lesions affecting splice donor or acceptor sites by mutation or deletion, so that we can clearly exclude aberrant splicing events within the malignant clone.  of note, we detected a preferential association of cbl mutations with specific subtypes of aml/mds. as core binding factor leukemias show a high expression of the rtk kit (40), further studies need to address the question of whether cbl mutations might lead to autoactivation of kit in these patients.  two of 13 patients with 11q deletions were found positive [% (%, %)].  this aml/mds subgroup shows the highest flt3 expression among all aml subgroups (41), so that cbl mutations might be the event causing the high flt3 expression and an aberrant flt3 activation in these patients. we analyzed all human cbl mutations thus far detected and cbl- 70z as a control.  only cells coexpressing flt3-wt and a cbl deletion mutant were able to proliferate in the absence of il-3.  cbl point mutants coexpressed with flt3wt showed enhanced survival, but no proliferative capacity in baf3 cells. this discrepancy may arise from the different cell systems used and highlights the need to analyze the phenotype of cbl mutations in primary cells.  the addition of exogenous flt3 ligand induced a rapid proliferative response to flt3-wt cbl deletion mutant – coexpressing cells.  as aml blasts coexpress flt3 ligand leading to an autocrine stimulation, this phenotype mimics the in vivo situation (47, 48). consistent with a dominant negative behavior of cbl mutants is the fact that we detected higher levels of flt3 protein in flt3/cbl mutant cells compared with control cells, as the increased stability of the flt3 protein should be the result of a decreased degradation of flt3.  analyzing the internalization rate of flt3 in flt3-wt and flt3-wt/cbl-70z cells revealed no difference in rate and speed of internalization; thus, early steps of endocytosis of flt3 seem not to be affected by the presence of a cbl deletion mutant.  this is in concert with a study from jiang , in which late stages of endocytosis, but not recruitment of egfr into coated pits, were affected by cbl-70z (48). taken together, aberrant cbl transcripts occur in aml and are associated with core binding factor leukemias and 11q aberrations.  the cbl deletion mutants show a transforming phenotype in baf3 cells in the presence of flt3, that resembles the phenotype seen in flt3-activating mutations (flt3-itd, flt3-tkd, flt3-jm-pm).  this new mechanism of activation through mutated negative-regulatory molecules of rtks opens a door for treating patients with ptk inhibitors, who do not carry mutations in the rtk itself.  methods  we applied high-density snp-a karyotyping to identify loss of heterozygosity of 11q in 442 patients with mds, mds/mpn, mpn, saml evolved from these conditions, and primary aml.  we sequenced c-cbl, cbl-b, and cbl-c in patients with or without corresponding upd or deletions and correlated mutational status with clinical features and outcomes.   results  we identified c-cbl mutations in 5% and 9% of patients with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (cmml) and saml, and also in cml blast crisis and juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (jmml). in myelodysplastic syndromes (mds), myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms (mds/mpn), and aml evolved from mds or mds/mpn (secondary aml [saml]), unbalanced chromosomal lesions predominate and loss of heterozygosity (loh) is of particular importance.  loh can arise either via hemizygous deletion, where a dna segment is lost from one homolog while the other remains at one copy per cell, or by uniparental disomy (upd), wherein the retained homolog is duplicated to preserve two total copies per cell at the locus.  thus, analysis of recurrent regions of loh may point toward the presence of important mutations. tp53 constitutes an example of a proapoptotic tumor suppressor gene mutated in aggressive leukemias. 5–7  until recently, metaphase cytogenetics was applied for detection of chromosomal defects including deletions resulting in loh.  using this technique, a number of invariant chromosomal abnormalities have been described and minimal affected regions delineated, pointing towards potentially pathogenic genes. among a total of 133 regions of somatic upd on multiple chromosomes including 1, 4, 17, and 21, upd11q was most common (n = 17).  loh can also result from deletions, and deletions involving 11q were found in 29 patients (fig 1c).  sequencing c-cbl revealed mutations in 13 cases (76%) of upd11q.  however, among patients with deletion11q, a c-cbl mutation was found in only one case (cmml).  we also analyzed patients without loh11q to assess the frequency of heterozygous mutations and identified five cases (%). in one case of a patient with mds (refractory anemia subtype) and monosomy 7 who transformed to aml, snp-a karyotyping revealed the upd11q, yet after transformation to aml sequencing identified a c-cbl mutation creating a novel splice site resulting in a longer transcript (appendix fig a1, online only).  we also found a hemizygous mutation in the linker sequence in a cmml patient with a microdeletion of 11q previously undetected by metaphase cytogenetics (appendix fig a2, online only).  eleven mutations were found in cmml and similar forms of mds/mpn unclassifiable either at or before the time of testing; 6 of these patients progressed to saml (55%).  an external file that holds a picture, illustration, et object name is zlj9990993630006. jpg a microdeletion 11q is detected in c-cbl in a patient with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia 1, leading to a hemizygous insertion mutation in the linker sequence.  bm, bone marrow.  an external file that holds a picture, illustration, et object name is zlj9990993630007. jpg in a patient with saml evolved from myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms, a chromosome 3 abnormality was seen by metaphase cytogenetics and single nucleotide polymorphism array analysis revealed a deletion in the region of cbl-b.  direct sequencing of whole bone marrow (bm) showed a hemizygous mutation (1204-51 g>a) in intron 9, whereas this mutation is not detected in cd3+ lymphocytes. we also included cbl exon 12 in this extended analysis because we observed a a678v change in one sample from the initial series.   cbl exon 8 deletions  some of the mutations described for cbl are large deletions involving exon 8 (ring finger domain)18,21–23,29,30,32,37,42 and the design of our mutation screening assay was not able to detect some of them.  we, therefore, designed a new pcr assay with primers located in exon 7 and intron 9 (e7fw: 5’-tcctgatggac-gaaatcaga-3’; e9-rv: 5’-ctcacaatggattttgccagt-3’) which would amplify a normal fragment of 989 b with this assay, any large deletion of exon 8 would be detected as a product of smaller size. the first one (detected in a patient with et) was a not previously reported g. 71955_71955a deletion in exon 8.  this is a frameshift change that truncates the ring finger domain with loss of the proline-rich and uba carboxy-terminal domains (t402hfsx29) (figure 1). none of the 200 control samples analyzed showed any of these changes.  cbl exon 8 deletions were not observed in any case.   we also detected a not previously reported substitution (g. || 1
8 || CBL || y371h || 4 ||  many of these mutations are in the linker region and the ring finger of cbl, leading to a loss of e3 ligase activity.  we investigated the mechanism by which cbl-y371h, a linker region mutant, and cbl-c384r, a ring finger mutant, lead to enhanced gm-csf signaling.  expression of cbl mutants in the tf-1 cell line resulted in enhanced survival in the absence of gm-csf. this suggested enhanced kinase activity downstream of gm-csfr.  jak2 and lyn kinase expression is elevated in cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutant cells, resulting in enhanced phosphorylation of cbl and s6 in response to gm-csf stimulation.  incubation with the jak2 inhibitor, tg101348, abolished the increased phosphorylation of gm-csfr βc in cells expressing cbl mutants, whereas treatment with the src kinase inhibitor dasatinib resulted in equalization of gm-csfr βc phosphorylation signal between wild type cbl and cbl mutant samples.  dasatinib treatment inhibited the elevated phosphorylation of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants.  our study indicates that cbl linker and ring finger mutants lead to enhanced gm-csf signaling due to elevated kinase expression, which can be blocked using small molecule inhibitors targeting specific downstream pathways.  the objective of this study is to investigate how jmml-associated cbl mutations modulate gm-csf signaling and lead to gm-csf hypersensitivity.  we expressed wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r in the human tf-1 hematopoietic cell line, which expresses the endogenous gm-csf receptor at physiological levels (38).  upon gm-csf stimulation, elevated phosphorylation of gm-csf βc was observed, resulting from elevated jak2 and lyn phosphorylation.  go to: experimental procedures constructs pmscv-ha-cbl retroviral vectors were used to create jmml-associated cbl mutants.  ha-tagged cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r were constructed using quikchange xl site-directed mutagenesis kits (stratagene) according to the manufacturer's protocol.   retrovirus production hek 293t cells were plated onto 10-cm dishes (sarstedt) and grown to around 75% confluence.  the 293t cells were transiently transfected with psv (gag and pol proteins) and pvsv-g (envelope protein) and pmscv-gfp retroviral vectors expressing ha-wild type cbl, ha-cbl-y371h, or ha-cbl-c384r using lipofectamine 2000 (invitrogen) as directed in the manufacturer's protocol.  briefly,  μg of psv,  μg of vsv-g, and  μg of pmscv-ires-gfp-ha-cbl constructs were mixed with lipofectamine 2000 in serum- and antibiotic-free dmem h-21 for 20 min at room temperature.  cell lines and culture tf-1 cells were maintained in rpmi 1640 medium, 10% (v/v) fetal calf serum, 100 units of penicillin/ml, 100 μg of streptomycin/ml, and 2 ng/ml recombinant human gm-csf.  in order to stably express wild type and mutant cbl, tf-1 cells were infected with vsv-g pseudotyped retrovirus carrying wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r constructs.  tf-1 cells were suspended in retroviral supernatant supplemented with 8 ng/ml polybrene and centrifuged in 50-ml tubes at 12,000 rpm for 75 min. tf-1 cells endogenously express the gm-csf receptor α (gm-csfrα) and the il-3/il-5/gm-csf receptor β common chain (gm-csfr βc), and are responsive to gm-csf.  ha-tagged wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r mutants were stably expressed in tf-1 cells ( 1a).  all exogenous constructs showed high expression of cbl when compared with vector-infected cells ( 1a). enhanced phosphorylation of gm-csf receptor βc upon expression of cbl mutants.  a, lysates from parental tf-1 cells as well as from tf-1 cells expressing wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r were probed for cbl expression.  ib, immunoblot. b .  binding of gm-csf to the gm-csf receptor complex activates jak2, leading to the tyrosine phosphorylation of gm-csfr β in order to investigate the effects of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants on gm-csf signaling, we examined the phosphorylation of the gm-csfr βc after stimulation.  tf-1 cells expressing wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r were cytokine-depleted and stimulated with gm-csf. gm-csfr βc was immunoprecipitated from lysates and immunoblotted with the 4g10 anti-phosphotyrosine antibody.  upon gm-csf stimulation, cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants ( 1b, lanes 5 and 6 and lanes 8 and 9) show enhanced phosphorylation of gm-csfr βc compared with the wild type cbl controls (lanes 2 and 3).  furthermore, prolonged phosphorylation of gm-csfr βc was observed in cbl mutant samples.  cbl plays an important role in stimulation-induced endocytosis, trafficking, and degradation of numerous tyrosine kinase (29, 32) and cytokine receptors (41, 42).  to determine whether expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants has an effect on the expression of the gm-csfr βc, as well as its gm-csf induced degradation, lysates collected from gm-csf-stimulated tf-1 cells were probed for gm-csfr β because it is likely that cbl-y371h (23, 30) and cbl-c384r (43) mutations result in a loss of cbl e3 ligase activity, gm-csfr βc levels were expected to be higher in mutant cbl-expressing cells.  surprisingly, expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r ( 2a, lanes 4–9) results in a decrease in gm-csfr βc compared with wild type cbl (lanes 1–3)-expressing cells at 0, 10, and 60 min ( 2b). however, it is important to note that gm-csfr βc expression decreased after gm-csf stimulation in wild type and mutant cbl-expressing cells at comparable rates.  these results indicate that although expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r results in an overall decreased expression of gm-csfr βc, the degradation of the receptor poststimulation appears not to be disrupted.   figure 2. blots were reprobed for .  elevated levels of jak2 kinase in cbl-y371h- and cbl-c384r-expressing tf-1 cells upon binding of gm-csf to gm-csfrα, a gm-csfr βc homodimer is recruited (6), bringing the βc-associated jak2 kinase (44, 45) into close proximity, allowing transphosphorylation and subsequent activation of the kinase.  activation of jak2 is essential for downstream gm-csf signaling (46, 47). the enhanced and prolonged phosphorylation of gm-csfr βc, along with a decrease in the overall expression of the receptor in cbl mutant-expressing cells may be indicative of elevated kinase activity downstream of gm-csfr β because jak2 is the main tyrosine kinase downstream of gm-csfr, the gm-csf-induced activation of jak2 was assessed.  tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r displayed elevated levels of phosphorylated jak2 upon gm-csf stimulation ( 3a, top, lanes 5 and 6 and lanes 8 and 9), compared with the wild type cbl controls (lanes 2 and 3).  reprobing for total jak2, revealed that the observed enhancement of the phospho-jak2 signal may be due to an increase in the expression of jak2 in cbl mutant-expressing cells ( 3, a (middle, lanes 4–9) and b). figure 3.  expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants results in elevated jak2.  a, lysates collected from tf-1 cells expressing wild type and cbl mutants were probed for phospho-tyr-1007/1008 jak2 and reprobed for total jak2 and tubulin. such loss of e3 ligase activity has been shown to result in a significant decrease in the epo-induced ubiquitination of jak2 (23).  in order to determine whether the increase in total jak2 in cbl mutant expressing cell lines was due to compromised ubiquitination and degradation of the kinase, tf-1 cells expressing wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r were treated with proteasomal (mg-132) and lysosomal (chloroquine) inhibitors prior to stimulation.  inhibition of proteasomal and lysosomal degradation stabilized jak2 to comparable levels in all three cell lines ( 3c, middle).  these results indicate that the expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants affects the degradation of jak2, leading to elevated levels, which in turn contribute to increased jak2 phosphorylation and potentially signaling in response to gm-csf stimulation.   increased expression of lyn kinase in cbl mutant cells although jak2 is the primary kinase activated downstream of gm-csf receptor, members of the src family kinase are stimulated in response to gm-csf (48–50). lyn also associates with gm-csfrα and is involved in the survival signal required for factor-independent growth of cells expressing the fiδ gm-csfr βc mutant (48).  considering that tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r show enhanced survival while exhibiting lower expression of gm-csfr βc, we wanted to determine whether lyn phosphorylation and/or expression was altered in cbl mutant-expressing cells.  lysates collected from gm-csf-stimulated cells were probed with an antibody specific for py396-lyn, residing in a phosphorylated motif within the lyn activation loo increased lyn phosphorylation was observed in cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants ( 4a, top, lanes 4–9), compared with those expressing wild type cbl (lanes 1–3). figure 4.  increased expression of lyn kinase in cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutant tf-1 cells.  a, whole cell lysates collected from tf-1 cells expressing cbl-wt and cbl mutants were immunoblotted with antibodies specific for tyr(p)-396-lyn.  expression of cbl mutants results in constitutive s6 phosphorylation and enhanced factor-free survival investigation of signaling effectors further downstream of the gm-csf receptor revealed enhanced phosphorylation of shp2 in cbl mutant-expressing cells relative to wild type cbl controls ( 5a).  constitutive phosphorylation of s6 in tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r, compared with wild type cbl-expressing controls ( 5b), was also observed.  no significant differences were observed in the phosphorylation of stat5 or erk1/2 ( 5c) between wild type cbl- and mutant cbl-expressing tf-1 cells after gm-csf stimulation. expression of cbl mutants results in constitutive phosphorylation of s6 and enhanced survival of tf-1 cells.  a, shp2 immunoprecipitations (ip) were performed on lysates collected from tf-1 cells expressing cbl-wt, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r, which were .  xtt assays were performed to determine whether the expression of the cbl linker and ring finger mutants results in enhanced survival and growth.  tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants displayed enhanced survival in the absence of gm-csf relative to cells expressing wild type cbl ( 5d).  the increase in the survival of the mutant-expressing cells decreases with increasing concentration of gm-csf. to determine whether the increase in survival was due to a decrease in apoptosis, annexin v staining was performed on cytokine-deprived wild type and mutant cbl-expressing cells.  there was a decrease in annexin v-positive tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h relative to wild type cbl-expressing controls, whereas the proportion of annexin v-positive cbl-c384r-expressing cells was comparable with wild type cbl controls ( 5e).  these results indicate that jmml-associated cbl mutations result in enhanced survival of tf-1 cells at low doses of gm-csf. linker region mutations of cbl have been shown to lead to enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of cbl in ba/f3-flt3 cells (24).   we were interested in determining whether expression of the linker region y371h and the ring finger c384r mutations would result in altered cbl tyrosine phosphorylation.  cbl was immunoprecipitated from wild type and mutant cbl tf-1 lysates, and phosphorylation was assessed by tyr(p) immunoblotting ( 6).  cbl-y371h (lanes 4–6) and cbl-c384r (lanes 7–9) were highly phosphorylated compared with cbl wild type controls (lanes 1–3).  both cbl mutants showed constitutive phosphorylation in the absence of gm-csf stimulation (lanes 4 and 7). figure 6.  dasatinib treatment abolishes the enhanced phosphorylation of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r.  tf-1 cells expressing wt and mutant cbl were incubated with dasatinib and tg101348 for 2 and 4 h, respectively, prior to gm-csf stimulation. to determine whether inhibition of jak2 or src family kinases could abolish the enhanced and constitutive phosphorylation of cbl, tf-1 cells expressing wild type and mutant cbl were treated with either the jak2-specific inhibitor tg101348 or the src family kinase inhibitor dasatinib prior to stimulation.  the constitutive and enhanced phosphorylation of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants (lanes 22–27) persisted in tg101348-treated samples ( 6), whereas pretreatment with dasatinib abolished the elevated phosphorylation of cbl mutants (lanes 13–18) to levels comparable with wild type cbl controls (lanes 10–12).  these results indicate that downstream of the gm-csf receptor, cbl is phosphorylated by a src family kinase, potentially lyn, and mutations in the linker region or the ring finger domain of cbl lead to not only enhanced but also constitutive phosphorylation of cbl. inhibition of jak2 activity via treatment with tg101348 abolishes the enhanced phosphorylation of gm-csfr β in cbl mutant-expressing cells.  tf-1 cells expressing wt-cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r were cytokine-depleted and treated with 2 mm tg101348 .  interestingly, inhibition of src family kinases did not result in the inhibition of gm-csfr βc phosphorylation, but it did result in an equivalent level of gm-csfr βc phosphorylation in wild type cbl and cbl mutant samples ( 7, lanes 19–27). in order to address these questions, we utilized the tf-1 hematopoietic cell line, which is gm-csf-responsive (38) and has a low endogenous cbl expression.  to examine the functional consequences of cbl linker region mutations, we expressed cbl-y371h linker and cbl-c384r ring finger mutants, because these are two of the most common cbl mutations observed in jmml patients (21, 22).   we found that expression of these cbl mutants in gm-csf-stimulated tf-1 cells leads to enhanced and prolonged phosphorylation of gm-csfr βc, which occurred concurrently with elevated expression of both jak2 and lyn. assessment of downstream signaling revealed enhanced phosphorylation of s6 in cbl-y371h- and cbl-c384r-expressing cells relative to wild type cbl controls.  tf-1 cells expressing cbl mutations showed enhanced survival in the absence of gm-csf, and specifically in the case of cbl-y371h-expressing cells, this is probably due to a decrease in induction of apoptosis.  we also observed elevated and constitutive phosphorylation of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants, which was inhibited upon treatment with dasatinib, an src family kinase inhibitor. however, inhibition of jak2 activity by tg101348 resulted in complete inhibition of gm-csfr βc phosphorylation in cbl mutant and wild type cbl control cells.   expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants results in prolonged and elevated receptor tyrosine phosphorylation, which supports the observed enhancement in survival (67).  martinez-moczygemba and huston (37, 68), using the il-5 receptor as a model for βc subunit-sharing cytokine receptors (il-3/il-5/gm-csf), demonstrated that increased βc subunit ubiquitination is observed after stimulation. they also found that the ubiquitination of the βc subunit may be mediated by cbl, because the e3 ligase was co-immunoprecipitated with the βc subunit.  the loss of e3 ligase activity of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants may prevent gm-csfr βc ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of the cytoplasmic region of the receptor and culminate in the observed enhancement of gm-csfr βc phosphorylation and elevated levels of jak2.  however, this is unlikely, because we have observed total levels of gm-csfr βc to be lower in cbl mutant cells. the ubiquitination of βc in response to il-5 stimulation is dependent on jak2 activity (68, 69).  in cbl-y371h- and cbl-c384r-expressing cells, the enhanced jak2 activity can potentially lead to increased ubiquitination of the βc by other ubiquitin ligases, resulting in decreased overall expression of the receptor subunit.   jak2 is also regulated via cbl-mediated ubiquitination (23, 70).  the expression of cbl mutants y371h and c384r may result in decreased ubiquitination of jak2, culminating in elevated levels of jak2 as well as enhanced jak2-mediated phosphorylation of gm-csfr β we found that in cbl mutant cells, there was elevated expression of jak2 kinase, which was abolished upon treatment with proteasomal and lysosomal inhibitors.   similar to jak2, several members of the src family kinases (71), including lyn, have been shown to be ubiquitinated (72) by cbl (73, 74).  the enhanced expression of lyn in tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r indicates that, downstream of gm-csfr, cbl is responsible for lyn ubiquitination.  lyn mediates the tyrosine phosphorylation of cbl downstream of β1 integrin (61), granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (g-csf) (62, 75), and the b-cell antigen receptor (63, 76).  we have observed enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants, which is abolished upon treatment with the src family kinase inhibitor dasatinib.  this confirms that lyn is a kinase responsible for tyrosine phosphorylation of cbl downstream of the gm-csfr, and the enhanced phosphorylation of cbl mutants may be a functional consequence of the elevated levels of lyn in cbl mutant-expressing cells. these data suggest that cbl linker and ring finger mutants lower the threshold concentration of gm-csf required to induce cell survival.  together, these results suggest that in cbl-y371h- and cbl-c384r-expressing cells, the modulation of the pi3-k pathway due to the increase in lyn levels may be contributing to the observed enhancement of survival in the absence of gm-csf.   the mechanism by which these mutations lead to elevated gm-csf signaling and enhanced survival depends on the role of cbl as both an e3 ligase and an adaptor protein.  cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants compromise the e3 ligase activity of cbl.  we have shown that these loss-of-function mutations lead to increased levels of jak2 and lyn kinases downstream of the gm-csfr, potentially due to loss of ubiquitination of the kinases or to the inhibition of gm-csfr βc ubiquitination and cytoplasmic domain degradation. although these studies are useful to probe how cbl mutations perturb flt3 signaling in aml, no studies have examined the role of cbl jmml mutations in gm-csf-dependent signaling pathways to date.  our analysis reveals that expression of cbl-y371h or cbl-c384r in tf-1 cells generates gm-csf hypersensitivity that affects proximal steps in receptor activation, including gm-csfr βc, jak2, and lyn coupling to pi3k activation.  unlike with the ba/f3 results, we failed to observe effects on erk1/2 or stat5 activation. we classified all mutations into three groups (damaging, attenuating and benign) according to their experimental relative densitometry data and compared experimental data with the estimates produced by the computational models.  the first group of damaging mutants included c396r, h398q, y371h, k382e and c381a which completely abolished cbl activity (relative densitometry was less than 10%) ( 3b) and the levels of total egfr were not decreased by these mutants ( 3a).  only two of these mutants belonged to the recurrent class of mutations. k382e mutation was previously observed in noonan syndrome and was speculated to affect cbl stability or binding (40).  finally, the y371h mutation not only abolished phosphorylation at the y371 site but also had a profound destabilizing effect on all four states as evident from table 1.   figure 4 figure 4 structures of wild type (green) and k382e mutant (tan) are shown for ncbl and pcbl-e2-s states. consistent with this, the fold increase in egf stimulated ubiquitination of the egfr by wild-type cbl was smaller in hela cells (about three fold) compared to either a549 or hek293t cells (more than 10 fold in each).  as in hek293t cells, the y371h mutant did not stimulate ubiquitination compared to the vector transfected control for a549 or hela cells ( s6a and c).  the cbl mutants that were fully active in hek293t cells ( 3a and b) maintained cbl e3 activity in a549 and hela cells ( s6). || 1
9 || CBL || c384r || 4 ||  many of these mutations are in the linker region and the ring finger of cbl, leading to a loss of e3 ligase activity.  we investigated the mechanism by which cbl-y371h, a linker region mutant, and cbl-c384r, a ring finger mutant, lead to enhanced gm-csf signaling.  expression of cbl mutants in the tf-1 cell line resulted in enhanced survival in the absence of gm-csf. this suggested enhanced kinase activity downstream of gm-csfr.  jak2 and lyn kinase expression is elevated in cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutant cells, resulting in enhanced phosphorylation of cbl and s6 in response to gm-csf stimulation.  incubation with the jak2 inhibitor, tg101348, abolished the increased phosphorylation of gm-csfr βc in cells expressing cbl mutants, whereas treatment with the src kinase inhibitor dasatinib resulted in equalization of gm-csfr βc phosphorylation signal between wild type cbl and cbl mutant samples.  dasatinib treatment inhibited the elevated phosphorylation of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants.  our study indicates that cbl linker and ring finger mutants lead to enhanced gm-csf signaling due to elevated kinase expression, which can be blocked using small molecule inhibitors targeting specific downstream pathways.  the objective of this study is to investigate how jmml-associated cbl mutations modulate gm-csf signaling and lead to gm-csf hypersensitivity.  we expressed wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r in the human tf-1 hematopoietic cell line, which expresses the endogenous gm-csf receptor at physiological levels (38).  upon gm-csf stimulation, elevated phosphorylation of gm-csf βc was observed, resulting from elevated jak2 and lyn phosphorylation.  go to: experimental procedures constructs pmscv-ha-cbl retroviral vectors were used to create jmml-associated cbl mutants.  ha-tagged cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r were constructed using quikchange xl site-directed mutagenesis kits (stratagene) according to the manufacturer's protocol.   retrovirus production hek 293t cells were plated onto 10-cm dishes (sarstedt) and grown to around 75% confluence.  the 293t cells were transiently transfected with psv (gag and pol proteins) and pvsv-g (envelope protein) and pmscv-gfp retroviral vectors expressing ha-wild type cbl, ha-cbl-y371h, or ha-cbl-c384r using lipofectamine 2000 (invitrogen) as directed in the manufacturer's protocol.  briefly,  μg of psv,  μg of vsv-g, and  μg of pmscv-ires-gfp-ha-cbl constructs were mixed with lipofectamine 2000 in serum- and antibiotic-free dmem h-21 for 20 min at room temperature.  cell lines and culture tf-1 cells were maintained in rpmi 1640 medium, 10% (v/v) fetal calf serum, 100 units of penicillin/ml, 100 μg of streptomycin/ml, and 2 ng/ml recombinant human gm-csf.  in order to stably express wild type and mutant cbl, tf-1 cells were infected with vsv-g pseudotyped retrovirus carrying wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r constructs.  tf-1 cells were suspended in retroviral supernatant supplemented with 8 ng/ml polybrene and centrifuged in 50-ml tubes at 12,000 rpm for 75 min. tf-1 cells endogenously express the gm-csf receptor α (gm-csfrα) and the il-3/il-5/gm-csf receptor β common chain (gm-csfr βc), and are responsive to gm-csf.  ha-tagged wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r mutants were stably expressed in tf-1 cells ( 1a).  all exogenous constructs showed high expression of cbl when compared with vector-infected cells ( 1a). enhanced phosphorylation of gm-csf receptor βc upon expression of cbl mutants.  a, lysates from parental tf-1 cells as well as from tf-1 cells expressing wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r were probed for cbl expression.  ib, immunoblot. b .  binding of gm-csf to the gm-csf receptor complex activates jak2, leading to the tyrosine phosphorylation of gm-csfr β in order to investigate the effects of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants on gm-csf signaling, we examined the phosphorylation of the gm-csfr βc after stimulation.  tf-1 cells expressing wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r were cytokine-depleted and stimulated with gm-csf. gm-csfr βc was immunoprecipitated from lysates and immunoblotted with the 4g10 anti-phosphotyrosine antibody.  upon gm-csf stimulation, cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants ( 1b, lanes 5 and 6 and lanes 8 and 9) show enhanced phosphorylation of gm-csfr βc compared with the wild type cbl controls (lanes 2 and 3).  furthermore, prolonged phosphorylation of gm-csfr βc was observed in cbl mutant samples.  cbl plays an important role in stimulation-induced endocytosis, trafficking, and degradation of numerous tyrosine kinase (29, 32) and cytokine receptors (41, 42).  to determine whether expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants has an effect on the expression of the gm-csfr βc, as well as its gm-csf induced degradation, lysates collected from gm-csf-stimulated tf-1 cells were probed for gm-csfr β because it is likely that cbl-y371h (23, 30) and cbl-c384r (43) mutations result in a loss of cbl e3 ligase activity, gm-csfr βc levels were expected to be higher in mutant cbl-expressing cells.  surprisingly, expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r ( 2a, lanes 4–9) results in a decrease in gm-csfr βc compared with wild type cbl (lanes 1–3)-expressing cells at 0, 10, and 60 min ( 2b). however, it is important to note that gm-csfr βc expression decreased after gm-csf stimulation in wild type and mutant cbl-expressing cells at comparable rates.  these results indicate that although expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r results in an overall decreased expression of gm-csfr βc, the degradation of the receptor poststimulation appears not to be disrupted.   figure 2. blots were reprobed for .  elevated levels of jak2 kinase in cbl-y371h- and cbl-c384r-expressing tf-1 cells upon binding of gm-csf to gm-csfrα, a gm-csfr βc homodimer is recruited (6), bringing the βc-associated jak2 kinase (44, 45) into close proximity, allowing transphosphorylation and subsequent activation of the kinase.  activation of jak2 is essential for downstream gm-csf signaling (46, 47). the enhanced and prolonged phosphorylation of gm-csfr βc, along with a decrease in the overall expression of the receptor in cbl mutant-expressing cells may be indicative of elevated kinase activity downstream of gm-csfr β because jak2 is the main tyrosine kinase downstream of gm-csfr, the gm-csf-induced activation of jak2 was assessed.  tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r displayed elevated levels of phosphorylated jak2 upon gm-csf stimulation ( 3a, top, lanes 5 and 6 and lanes 8 and 9), compared with the wild type cbl controls (lanes 2 and 3).  reprobing for total jak2, revealed that the observed enhancement of the phospho-jak2 signal may be due to an increase in the expression of jak2 in cbl mutant-expressing cells ( 3, a (middle, lanes 4–9) and b). figure 3.  expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants results in elevated jak2.  a, lysates collected from tf-1 cells expressing wild type and cbl mutants were probed for phospho-tyr-1007/1008 jak2 and reprobed for total jak2 and tubulin. such loss of e3 ligase activity has been shown to result in a significant decrease in the epo-induced ubiquitination of jak2 (23).  in order to determine whether the increase in total jak2 in cbl mutant expressing cell lines was due to compromised ubiquitination and degradation of the kinase, tf-1 cells expressing wild type cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r were treated with proteasomal (mg-132) and lysosomal (chloroquine) inhibitors prior to stimulation.  inhibition of proteasomal and lysosomal degradation stabilized jak2 to comparable levels in all three cell lines ( 3c, middle).  these results indicate that the expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants affects the degradation of jak2, leading to elevated levels, which in turn contribute to increased jak2 phosphorylation and potentially signaling in response to gm-csf stimulation.   increased expression of lyn kinase in cbl mutant cells although jak2 is the primary kinase activated downstream of gm-csf receptor, members of the src family kinase are stimulated in response to gm-csf (48–50). lyn also associates with gm-csfrα and is involved in the survival signal required for factor-independent growth of cells expressing the fiδ gm-csfr βc mutant (48).  considering that tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r show enhanced survival while exhibiting lower expression of gm-csfr βc, we wanted to determine whether lyn phosphorylation and/or expression was altered in cbl mutant-expressing cells.  lysates collected from gm-csf-stimulated cells were probed with an antibody specific for py396-lyn, residing in a phosphorylated motif within the lyn activation loo increased lyn phosphorylation was observed in cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants ( 4a, top, lanes 4–9), compared with those expressing wild type cbl (lanes 1–3). figure 4.  increased expression of lyn kinase in cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutant tf-1 cells.  a, whole cell lysates collected from tf-1 cells expressing cbl-wt and cbl mutants were immunoblotted with antibodies specific for tyr(p)-396-lyn.  expression of cbl mutants results in constitutive s6 phosphorylation and enhanced factor-free survival investigation of signaling effectors further downstream of the gm-csf receptor revealed enhanced phosphorylation of shp2 in cbl mutant-expressing cells relative to wild type cbl controls ( 5a).  constitutive phosphorylation of s6 in tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r, compared with wild type cbl-expressing controls ( 5b), was also observed.  no significant differences were observed in the phosphorylation of stat5 or erk1/2 ( 5c) between wild type cbl- and mutant cbl-expressing tf-1 cells after gm-csf stimulation. expression of cbl mutants results in constitutive phosphorylation of s6 and enhanced survival of tf-1 cells.  a, shp2 immunoprecipitations (ip) were performed on lysates collected from tf-1 cells expressing cbl-wt, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r, which were .  xtt assays were performed to determine whether the expression of the cbl linker and ring finger mutants results in enhanced survival and growth.  tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants displayed enhanced survival in the absence of gm-csf relative to cells expressing wild type cbl ( 5d).  the increase in the survival of the mutant-expressing cells decreases with increasing concentration of gm-csf. to determine whether the increase in survival was due to a decrease in apoptosis, annexin v staining was performed on cytokine-deprived wild type and mutant cbl-expressing cells.  there was a decrease in annexin v-positive tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h relative to wild type cbl-expressing controls, whereas the proportion of annexin v-positive cbl-c384r-expressing cells was comparable with wild type cbl controls ( 5e).  these results indicate that jmml-associated cbl mutations result in enhanced survival of tf-1 cells at low doses of gm-csf. linker region mutations of cbl have been shown to lead to enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of cbl in ba/f3-flt3 cells (24).   we were interested in determining whether expression of the linker region y371h and the ring finger c384r mutations would result in altered cbl tyrosine phosphorylation.  cbl was immunoprecipitated from wild type and mutant cbl tf-1 lysates, and phosphorylation was assessed by tyr(p) immunoblotting ( 6).  cbl-y371h (lanes 4–6) and cbl-c384r (lanes 7–9) were highly phosphorylated compared with cbl wild type controls (lanes 1–3).  both cbl mutants showed constitutive phosphorylation in the absence of gm-csf stimulation (lanes 4 and 7). figure 6.  dasatinib treatment abolishes the enhanced phosphorylation of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r.  tf-1 cells expressing wt and mutant cbl were incubated with dasatinib and tg101348 for 2 and 4 h, respectively, prior to gm-csf stimulation. to determine whether inhibition of jak2 or src family kinases could abolish the enhanced and constitutive phosphorylation of cbl, tf-1 cells expressing wild type and mutant cbl were treated with either the jak2-specific inhibitor tg101348 or the src family kinase inhibitor dasatinib prior to stimulation.  the constitutive and enhanced phosphorylation of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants (lanes 22–27) persisted in tg101348-treated samples ( 6), whereas pretreatment with dasatinib abolished the elevated phosphorylation of cbl mutants (lanes 13–18) to levels comparable with wild type cbl controls (lanes 10–12).  these results indicate that downstream of the gm-csf receptor, cbl is phosphorylated by a src family kinase, potentially lyn, and mutations in the linker region or the ring finger domain of cbl lead to not only enhanced but also constitutive phosphorylation of cbl. inhibition of jak2 activity via treatment with tg101348 abolishes the enhanced phosphorylation of gm-csfr β in cbl mutant-expressing cells.  tf-1 cells expressing wt-cbl, cbl-y371h, and cbl-c384r were cytokine-depleted and treated with 2 mm tg101348 .  interestingly, inhibition of src family kinases did not result in the inhibition of gm-csfr βc phosphorylation, but it did result in an equivalent level of gm-csfr βc phosphorylation in wild type cbl and cbl mutant samples ( 7, lanes 19–27). in order to address these questions, we utilized the tf-1 hematopoietic cell line, which is gm-csf-responsive (38) and has a low endogenous cbl expression.  to examine the functional consequences of cbl linker region mutations, we expressed cbl-y371h linker and cbl-c384r ring finger mutants, because these are two of the most common cbl mutations observed in jmml patients (21, 22).   we found that expression of these cbl mutants in gm-csf-stimulated tf-1 cells leads to enhanced and prolonged phosphorylation of gm-csfr βc, which occurred concurrently with elevated expression of both jak2 and lyn.  assessment of downstream signaling revealed enhanced phosphorylation of s6 in cbl-y371h- and cbl-c384r-expressing cells relative to wild type cbl controls.  tf-1 cells expressing cbl mutations showed enhanced survival in the absence of gm-csf, and specifically in the case of cbl-y371h-expressing cells, this is probably due to a decrease in induction of apoptosis.  we also observed elevated and constitutive phosphorylation of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants, which was inhibited upon treatment with dasatinib, an src family kinase inhibitor.  interestingly, treatment with dasatinib also led to equalization of gm-csfr βc phosphorylation between wild type cbl- and cbl mutant-expressing cells. however, inhibition of jak2 activity by tg101348 resulted in complete inhibition of gm-csfr βc phosphorylation in cbl mutant and wild type cbl control cells.   expression of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants results in prolonged and elevated receptor tyrosine phosphorylation, which supports the observed enhancement in survival (67).  martinez-moczygemba and huston (37, 68), using the il-5 receptor as a model for βc subunit-sharing cytokine receptors (il-3/il-5/gm-csf), demonstrated that increased βc subunit ubiquitination is observed after stimulation. they also found that the ubiquitination of the βc subunit may be mediated by cbl, because the e3 ligase was co-immunoprecipitated with the βc subunit.  the loss of e3 ligase activity of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants may prevent gm-csfr βc ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of the cytoplasmic region of the receptor and culminate in the observed enhancement of gm-csfr βc phosphorylation and elevated levels of jak2.  however, this is unlikely, because we have observed total levels of gm-csfr βc to be lower in cbl mutant cells. the ubiquitination of βc in response to il-5 stimulation is dependent on jak2 activity (68, 69).  in cbl-y371h- and cbl-c384r-expressing cells, the enhanced jak2 activity can potentially lead to increased ubiquitination of the βc by other ubiquitin ligases, resulting in decreased overall expression of the receptor subunit.   jak2 is also regulated via cbl-mediated ubiquitination (23, 70).  the expression of cbl mutants y371h and c384r may result in decreased ubiquitination of jak2, culminating in elevated levels of jak2 as well as enhanced jak2-mediated phosphorylation of gm-csfr β we found that in cbl mutant cells, there was elevated expression of jak2 kinase, which was abolished upon treatment with proteasomal and lysosomal inhibitors.   similar to jak2, several members of the src family kinases (71), including lyn, have been shown to be ubiquitinated (72) by cbl (73, 74).  the enhanced expression of lyn in tf-1 cells expressing cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r indicates that, downstream of gm-csfr, cbl is responsible for lyn ubiquitination.  lyn mediates the tyrosine phosphorylation of cbl downstream of β1 integrin (61), granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (g-csf) (62, 75), and the b-cell antigen receptor (63, 76).  we have observed enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants, which is abolished upon treatment with the src family kinase inhibitor dasatinib.  this confirms that lyn is a kinase responsible for tyrosine phosphorylation of cbl downstream of the gm-csfr, and the enhanced phosphorylation of cbl mutants may be a functional consequence of the elevated levels of lyn in cbl mutant-expressing cells. these data suggest that cbl linker and ring finger mutants lower the threshold concentration of gm-csf required to induce cell survival.  together, these results suggest that in cbl-y371h- and cbl-c384r-expressing cells, the modulation of the pi3-k pathway due to the increase in lyn levels may be contributing to the observed enhancement of survival in the absence of gm-csf.   the mechanism by which these mutations lead to elevated gm-csf signaling and enhanced survival depends on the role of cbl as both an e3 ligase and an adaptor protein.  cbl-y371h and cbl-c384r mutants compromise the e3 ligase activity of cbl.  we have shown that these loss-of-function mutations lead to increased levels of jak2 and lyn kinases downstream of the gm-csfr, potentially due to loss of ubiquitination of the kinases or to the inhibition of gm-csfr βc ubiquitination and cytoplasmic domain degradation. although these studies are useful to probe how cbl mutations perturb flt3 signaling in aml, no studies have examined the role of cbl jmml mutations in gm-csf-dependent signaling pathways to date.  our analysis reveals that expression of cbl-y371h or cbl-c384r in tf-1 cells generates gm-csf hypersensitivity that affects proximal steps in receptor activation, including gm-csfr βc, jak2, and lyn coupling to pi3k activation.  unlike with the ba/f3 results, we failed to observe effects on erk1/2 or stat5 activation. || 1
10 || CBL || p395a || 4 ||  all mutations from the second group were predicted to be benign according to our computational models, whereas v430m, consistent with experimental data, had a borderline destabilizing impact on cbl-e2 binding (table 1).   finally, the third group constituted mutations (l399v, g375p, p395a and v391i) which attenuated the cbl e3 activity according to the relative densitometry data ( 3b).  only one of these mutants was observed in two cancer samples while other three belonged to the single mutation class. concordant with this, there were intermediate levels of egfr ( 3a).  g375p and p395a mutations were predicted to have partially damaging effects while v391i and l399v were classified as benign in our predictions.  interestingly, mutations from this third group affected only some of the cbl states. || 1