ID,Text
68 ||   recurrent mutations in rheb activate mtorc1  we also observed that other mtor pathway genes such as raptor, rictor, and rheb1 harbored recurrent mutations (supplemental table 1).  expression of rheb1 y35n/c/h and to a lesser degree e139k increased phosphorylation of endogenous s6k1 more than that of wt rheb1 (figure 2e), while recurrent mutations in raptor (r788c) or rictor (s1101l) failed to induce any mtorc1 or mtorc2 activity (data not shown).  in support of the relevance of these mutations to cancer, rheb was recently highlighted as a novel cancer gene due to the presence of the y35n mutation (23). recently, cancer genome sequencing efforts have identified recurrent rheb tyr35asn mutations in kidney and endometrial carcinoma.  here we show that rheb-y35n causes not only constitutive mtorc1 activation, but sustained activation of the mek-erk pathway in a tsc1/tsc2/tbc1d7 protein complex and mtorc1-independent manner, contributing to intrinsic resistance to rapamycin.  rheb-y35n transforms nih3t3 cells, resulting in aggressive tumor formation in xenograft nude mice, which could be suppressed by combined treatment with rapamycin and an extracellular signal-regulated kinase (erk) inhibitor. furthermore, rheb-y35n inhibits ampkα activation in response to nutrient depletion or 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide (aicar), leading to attenuated phosphorylation of braf-s729 and retained mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) activation.  finally, we demonstrate that rheb-wt can bind ampk to facilitate ampk activation, whereas rheb-y35n competitively binds ampk, impairing ampk phosphorylation.  in summary, our findings indicate that rheb-y35n is a dominantly active tumor driver that activates both mtorc1 and mapk to promote tumor growth, suggesting a combination of mtorc1 and mapk inhibitors may be of therapeutic value in patients whose cancers sustain this mutation.org/public-portal/).  rhebtyr35 is an apparent hotspot for mutations, with eight cancer samples showing mutation at this site, of which five are tyr35asn (rheb-y35n) mutations, identified in two uterine cancers, two clear cell renal cell cancers and one papillary renal cell cancer. 16 a recent study also demonstrated that rheb-y35n activated mtorc1 in a 293t cell transient overexpression assay.17 here we explore the potential growth-promoting and signaling properties of rheb-y35n.  we find that rheb-y35n activates mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) signaling, in contrast to wild-type (wt) rheb.  furthermore, y35n mutant causes anchorage-independent and clonogenic growth of nih3t3 cells in low serum, which is suppressed by combined mtorc1 and mapk inhibition. in addition, we demonstrate that both wt rheb and rheb-y35n bind to ampkα, whereas the mutant also inhibits ampkα phosphorylation and reduces pbraf-s729 levels by competitive binding to ampk, probably contributing to mapk activation.  our findings identify the effects of rheb-y35n on both mapk and mtorc1, and suggest that the use of combined mtor and mapk inhibition may be a useful therapeutic strategy for cancer patients with this mutation.   top of page results rheb-y35n mutant constitutively activates mapk we established two stably transfected 293t cell lines with overexpression of wt rheb and rheb-y35n mutant.  reverse transcriptase–pcr of rheb mrna followed by sanger sequencing demonstrated that rheb-y35n mrna comprise ~3/4 of total rheb mrna in rheb-y35n cells (supplementary figure 1).  the level of rheb expression in these cells was assessed by both immunoblotting and quantitative proteomic analysis, showing that the expression of rheb increased -fold compared with the empty vector-transfected cells (supplementary figures 2 and 3). consistent with previous studies,11, 17 y35n expression caused constitutive activation of mtorc1, as assessed by ps6k-t389, p4e-bp1-t70 and ps6, but not mtorc2, as assessed by pakt-s473, in the absence of serum (total rheb as internal control; supplementary figure 2).  under standard growth conditions, rheb-y35n cells demonstrated a modest increase in cell growth over that of control cells, as well as rheb-wt cells (supplementary figure 4).  treatment with rapamycin or torin1 reduced cell growth for both wt and y35n cells (figure 1a). as expected, ps6k and ps6 significantly decreased in response to both inhibitors in both rheb-wt and -y35n cells, and torin1 also reduced pakt-s473 levels (figure 1b).  interestingly, the growth of rheb-y35n cells was significantly less sensitive to both inhibitors in comparison with rheb-wt cells, suggesting that rheb-y35n might drive cell growth through mechanisms other than mtor.  higher levels of perk1/2 were observed in the rheb-y35n cells in comparison with rheb-wt cells, along with increased pp90rsk, which is the downstream target of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (erk) (figures 1b and c).  to confirm that rheb-y35n had specific effects in activating mapk, we expressed rheb-wt at four fold higher levels than rheb-y35n in hek 293t cells and observed that only rheb-y35n affected perk levels (supplementary figure 5).  figure 1. if you require assistance to access this image, please contact help@nature. com or the author rheb-y35n constitutively activates mtorc1 and mapk in 293t cells.  (a) cell viability was measured at 48 h after treatment using cell titer-glo.  rheb-wt and rheb-y35n cells were independently normalized to the untreated cells.  mean±s. for three replicates are shown.  (b) immunoblot analysis of rheb-wt and y35n 293t cell lysates after culture in dimethyl sulfoxide (dmso), 20 nm rapamycin or 200 nm torin1 for 12 h.  the antibodies used are indicated.  (c) immunoblot analysis of rheb-wt andy35n 293t cell lysates after serum starvation ±10% fetal bovine serum (fbs) for 30 min.  the antibodies used are indicated. for three replicates are shown.  (e) immunoblot analysis of wt and y35n 293t cells treated with 20 nm rapamycin or 200 nm sch in serum for 24 h.  the antibodies used are indicated.  (f) cell viability curves are shown for variable doses of sch (x axis, 0–500 nm) with or without a fixed dose of rapamycin (20 nm rapa) on rheb-y35n-expressing 293t cells.  cell number was assessed by cell titer-glo at 48 h after incubation. for three replicates are shown.  (g) rheb-wt and rheb-y35n-expressing 293t cells were transiently transfected with prk7-ha-s6k-kr (kr) or (wt) plasmids with/without prk7-tsc1/prk7-tsc2 plasmids.  at 48 h after transfection, cells were lysed and subjected to immunoblotting with indicated antibodies. band intensities for ha and ps6k1-t389 were quantified by image j software and graphed at the right side.  (h) rheb-wt and rheb-y35n-expressing 293t cells were transiently transfected with prk7-tsc1/−tsc2 plasmids.  at 48 h after transfection, cells were lysed and subjected to the indicated antibodies. **p< and ***p<.   full figure and legend (268k)  to assess the contribution of mapk activation to the growth advantage of the rheb-y35n cells, we examined the effects of treatment with sch772984 (sch), a specific erk inhibitor18 (figure 1d).  we found that both rapamycin and sch significantly inhibited growth of rheb-y35n 293t cells and the combination of drugs had a greater inhibitory effect than either alone (figure 1d). each drug inhibited its canonical target in both cell types (figure 1e).  notably, inhibition of erk by sch did not affect y35n-induced ps6k activity (figure 1e).  in addition, the growth inhibitory effect of sch synergized with the growth inhibitory effects of rapamycin at 20 nm over a broad range of sch doses (figure 1f) and the synergy persisted as the dose of each drug was increased, demonstrated by the combination index value (supplementary table1). transient co-transfection of tsc1, tsc2 and prk7-ha-s6k1 k100r(kr), a kinase inactive form of s6k19, led to significant reduction in levels of ps6k1-t389 and ps6-s235/236, in both rheb-wt andy35n cells, indicating rheb-y35n was still subject to tsc2 gap activity in the presence of high levels of tsc1/2 (figure 1g).  in contrast, overexpression of either or both tsc1 and tsc2 did not affect mapk activation in the y35n-expressing cells, suggesting that mapk activation by rheb-y35n was independent of gtp loading (figure 1h).  as erk is also upstream of rheb via tsc1/2, we asked whether erk activity can affect y35n-induced mtor activation in the absence of tsc1/2. we demonstrated that inhibition of erk has no effect on s6k activation in y35n-transfected tsc2−/− mef cells (supplementary figure 6b).   rheb-y35n is an oncogenic mutation to examine the effects of y35n on mtorc1, mapk and growth signaling in greater detail, we expressed both rheb-wt and rheb-y35n in nih3t3 cells.  immunoblot analysis confirmed that rheb-y35n had similar effects in nih3t3 as seen in 293t cells, including elevated levels of pmek and perk, and activation of mtorc1, as assessed by ps6k (figure 2a). to examine growth effects, we plated the cells at low density (1 × 103cells/well and 1 × 104 cells/well) and in low serum (%).  rheb-y35n cells grew robustly under these conditions, in contrast to untransfected or rheb-wt cells (figure 2b).  furthermore, treatment of rheb-y35n nih3t3 cells with either 20 nm rapamycinor 200 nm sch significantly reduced cell growth in these low-serum conditions. sch had a greater inhibitory effect than rapamycin, suggesting that activated erk was more responsible for the enhanced cell survival displayed by rheb-y35n cells.  furthermore, combined treatment with both rapamycin and sch resulted in near-complete loss of viable rheb-y35n cells (figure 2c).  in addition, y35n nih3t3 cells showed growth in soft agar similar to a transformed cancer line (j82, bladder cancer)20 in contrast to empty vector or rheb-wt-transfected nih3t3 cells (figure 2d).  furthermore, rapamycin and sch each inhibited colony formation of rheb-y35n nih3t3 cells, with a strong synergistic effect (figure 2d).  immunoblot analysis confirmed the on-target effects of each inhibitor on mtorc1 and mapk, respectively (figure 2e). if you require assistance to access this image, please contact help@nature. com or the author rheb-y35n promotes nih3t3 cell survival through mapk activation and results in anchorage-independent cell growth.  (a) immunoblot analysis of nih3t3 cell lysates expressing rheb-wt or -y35n after serum starvation with (+)/without (−) 10% fetal bovine serum (fbs) for 30 min. the antibodies used are indicated.  (b) low-density cell growth assay of rheb-ev, rheb-wt and rheb-y35n nih3t3 cells.  left, nih3t3 cells were plated at 1000 (upper panel) or 10 000 (lower panel) cells per well in 6-well plates and cultured in dulbecco’s modified eagle’s medium supplemented with % fbs for 5 days. after 6-week incubation, colonies were stained with crystal violet and the number of colonies (>100 μm diameter) of each well was determined.  rheb-y35n nih3t3 cells treated with vehicle, 20 nm rapamycin, 200 nm sch or the combinationfor 3 weeks.  number of colonies was manually assessed using microscopy. (e).  immunoblot analysis of y35n nih3t3 cells treated with 20 nm rapamycin, 200 nm sch or the combination for 16 h, using the indicated antibodies.   full figure and legend (221k)  rheb-y35n blocks ampkα inhibition of braf to enhance mapk activation we then explored the mechanism of rheb-y35n activation of the mapk pathway.22 more recently, activated ampk has been shown to directly phosphorylate braf at s729, a 14-3-3-binding site, leading to reduced mek-erk signaling. 23 thus, we hypothesized that y35n mutant might have reduced or even inhibitory effects in activating ampk, compared with wt rheb, attenuating inhibitory effects of ampk on mapk activation.  to explore this hypothesis, we treated rheb-wt and -y35n hek 293t cells with 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide (aicar), an ampk activator. we found that aicar induced levels of pampk-t172, pbraf-s729 and pacc-s79 in rheb-wt cells, and reduced perk1/2 levels.  in contrast, aicar had few effects in the rheb-y35n-expressing cells, in which perk1/2 remained elevated even with aicar treatment (figure 3a).  similar observations were made on y35n nih3t3 cells in response to aicar (supplementary figure 7). if you require assistance to access this image, please contact help@nature. com or the author rheb-y35n attenuates phosphorylation of ampkα.  (a) immunoblot analysis of rheb-wt and -y35n 293t cells treated with/without  mm aicar for 1 h, using the indicated antibodies. (b) similar as in a.  rheb-wt and y35n cells were incubated in glucose-free dulbecco’s modified eagle’s medium for 8 h and then treated with/without 25 mm d-glucose for 1 h.  immunoblot analysis was performed using indicated antibodies. forty-eight hours after transfection, cells were treated with/without  mm aicar for 1 h, then lysed and subjected to immunoblotting.  (d) rheb-y35n 293t cells were transfected with vector, ampk-wt and constitutively active form of ampk (ampk ca, t174d), respectively.  after 48-h incubation, cells were treated with  mm aicar for 1 h, then lysed and subjected to immunoblotting.  (e) immunoblot analysis of rheb-wt and -y35n 293t cells with/without 10% fetal bovine serum (fbs) for 30 min.  total lysates were subjected to the indicated antibodies.   full figure and legend (170k)  these results suggested that ampk activity was inhibited by expression of rheb-y35n, not rheb-wt, inhibiting stress response signaling to braf and acc, as well as suppression of erk1/2 activity.  to examine this hypothesis further, we knocked down wt rheb in 293t cells and found that loss of rheb significantly reduced pampk-t172 and pbraf-s729 levels in response to aicar (figure 3c).  on the other hand, transfection of a constitutively active form of ampk (ampk-α1-t174d)24 led to significantly increased pbraf-s729 and decreased perk in y35n 293t cells (figure 3d).  previous work has shown that erk and p90rsk phosphorylate lkb1, which attenuates the ability of lkb1 to activate ampk.25 to examine the possibility that lkb1 effects were influencing ampk activity in rheb-y35n cells, rheb-wt/-y35n 293t cells were serum starved.  plkb1-s428 levels were reduced in rheb-y35n 293t cells, in comparison with rheb-wt cells (figure 3e), suggesting that reduction of pampk is not due to effects on lkb1.   y35n mutant competitively binds ampkα to inhibit rheb-wt-mediated ampk activation based on these findings, we hypothesized that rheb directly interacts with ampk and affects its activity.27 we demonstrated that rheb may potentially bind the kinase domain of ampkα subunit (supplementary figure 8).  in addition, only a subtle difference in the volumetric maps between rheb wt and y35n mutant is observed ( nm3 vs  nm3), suggesting that y35n mutation may not affect the binding of rheb to ampkα.  to examine rheb binding to ampka directly, we used flag-rheb in co-immunoprecipitation experiments. both rheb-wt and rheb-y35n bound to ampkα in the presence or absence of aicar, in contrast to flag-kras, and neither interacted with ampkβ1 or lkb1 (figure 4a).  similarly, ampk immunoprecipitation also pulled down flag-tagged rheb-wt and -y35n, confirming the interaction between these proteins (figure 4b).  notably, ampk preferably binds y35n, supported by the increased binding of y35n to ampkα compared with the wt (figure 4b). neither tsc2 nor mtor was co-precipitated with ampkα under these conditions (figure 4b).  finally, we found that rheb-y35n had dominant activity over rheb-wt in blocking pampk and pbraf levels, and stimulating mapk signaling, when expressed at an equimolar ratio (rheb-wt and rheb-wt+y35n ratio: 1:1) (figure 4c) and similar effect was observed when rheb wt and rheb-wt+y35n ratio was 1:2 (supplementary figure 9).  figure 4. if you require assistance to access this image, please contact help@nature. com or the author rheb-y35n competitively binds ampk.  (a) immunoblot analysis of 293t cells transiently transfected with flag-tagged-rheb-wt or -y35n, with or without treatment with  mm aicar for 1 h, followed by immunoprecipitation using anti-flag antibody. immunoprecipitates are shown at the top and total lysates are shown at the bottom.  (b) immunoblot analysis of hek 293t cells transiently transfected with flag-tagged-wt or -y35n, with or without treatment with  mm aicar for 1 h, followed by immunoprecipitation using anti-ampk antibody.  igg denotes immunoprecipitation with a control antibody. immunoprecipitates are shown at the top and total lysates are shown at the bottom.  (c) immunoblot analysis of hek 293t cells transiently transfected with flag-tagged-rheb-wt or co-transfected with flag-tagged-wt and-y35n (ratio:1:+), with or without treatment with  mm aicar for 1 h, then lysed and subjected to immunoblotting using indicated antibodies.   full figure and legend (161k)  taken together, our results suggest that rheb-y35n binds to ampk in competition with rheb-wt, to constitutively inhibit ampk activity regardless of aicar treatment or nutrient depletion, leading to attenuated phosphorylation at braf-s729 and enhanced mapk signaling.  combined mtor and erk inhibition effectively reduces tumor growth of rheb-y35n xenografts as shown above, rheb-y35n expression activates both mtor and mapk pathways, leading us to hypothesize that this mutant is a driver oncogenic event contributing to cancer development through activation of both growth pathways.  to examine this hypothesis, nih3t3 cells expressing rheb-wt, rheb-y35n and kras-g12d were implanted into immunodeficient nude mice for xenograft tumor formation.  solid tumors were readily visible on mice injected with all three nih3t3 cell lines. notably, rheb-y35n expressing nih3t3 cells formed tumors most quickly and the tumors were significantly larger than either of the other cells injected, at 3 weeks after implantation (figure 5a).  to determine whether rheb-y35n nih3t3 xenograft tumors were dependent on mtorc1 and mapk signaling, mice were treated with vehicle, rapamycin, sch or a combination of both drugs every 3 days for 3 weeks after tumor volume reached a threshold size (300 mm3).  although each of rapamycin and sch alone caused a significant decrease in tumor growth, combination treatment resulted in a significantly greater reduction than either agent alone, effectively arresting tumor growth during the 3 weeks therapy (figures 5b and c).  to test the specificity of drug treatment of rheb-y35n cell line, we adopted the identical protocol to test drug treatment effect for rheb-wt cell.  no significant synergistic effect of the combination treatment was observed for rheb-wt-implanted groups (supplementary figure 10). if you require assistance to access this image, please contact help@nature. com or the author combination of rapamycin with sch772984 reduces tumor growth in rheb-y35n xenograft model.  (a) kras-g12d, rheb-wt and y35n stably transfected nih3t3 cells (5 × 106 each)were injected into the flanks of balb/c nude mice. (d) representative immunohistochemistry images.  left 4 × 4 panel, rheb-y35n xenograft tumors from mice treated with vehicle, rapamycin, sch77294 or the combination, respectively, were assessed using ps6(235/236) and perk1/2 antibodies.  upper right, kras-g12d and rheb-wt xenograft tumor were stained with perk1/2 antibody without any drug treatment.  lower right, rheb-wt and-y35n xenograft tumor were stained with pbraf-s729 antibody without any drug treatment.  scale bar, 50 μm; 1 and 2 are the mice that were randomly selected from each grou  full figure and legend (458k)  none of the treated mice showed any evidence of toxicity or body weight loss (supplementary figure 11). in addition, we analyzed perk1/2 and ps6 in tumors from in vivo xenograft mice (two out of four each group).  as expected, kras-g12d and rheb-y35n untreated xenograft mice showed significant upregulated level of perk1/2, whereas no erk activation was observed in rheb-wt mice (figure 5d).  in contrast to perk1/2, levels of pbraf-s729 was downregulated in rheb-y35n xenograft mice compared with rheb-wt (figure 5d). furthermore, the levels of ps6 and perk1/2 were significantly decreased in rheb-y35n xenograft mice treated with rapamycin, sch772984 and combination treatment (figure 5d).  collectively, these results are consistent with our observation that rheb-y35n leads to constitutive activation of mapk, and inhibition of both mtorc1 and mapk activity is necessary for suppressing rheb-y35n tumor growth in vivo.   top of page discussion rheb regulates multiple cellular processes including cell growth, protein translation, differentiation, anabolic processes and autophagy, largely through its effects on mtorc, 29, 30, 31 rheb-gtp levels are directly regulated by tsc2, which occurs in the tsc protein complex with tsc1 and tbc1d7, and functions as a gap for rheb. however, most of these mutations have been seen only once or twice, suggesting that they may represent background or genetic noise rather than tumor activating events.  here we focused on rheb-y35n, the only recurrent rheb mutation. 16 previous studies showed that rheb-y35n could activate mtorc1, similar to activating mutations in mtor.37 tyr35 normally inhibits this interaction, helping to explain the low intrinsic gtpase activity of rheb.  a recent study reported that y35n mutant is resistant to tsc2 gap activity or gtp hydrolysis,11 whereas our results showed that y35n mutant was still subject to regulation by the tsc complex, in that overexpression of tsc1/2 resulted in significant reduction of ps6k and ps6 in rheb-y35n-expressing cells (figure 1g).  further study to characterize the precise mechanism by which the y35n mutation can activate mtorc1 is needed.  the finding that mapk is constitutively activated by rheb-y35n, independent of mtorc1 and tsc protein complex activity, was unexpected.  in contrast to the effect of rheb-y35n on mtorc1 activation, mapk activation is independent of both serum stimulation and mtorc1 activity.  furthermore, mapk activation is seen only in the y35n and not in wt rheb-expressing cells. in addition, y35n-induced mapk activation in combination with mtorc1 activation led to robust growth in low-serum conditions at low density, as well as anchorage-independent cell growth in soft agar.  hence, we have demonstrated that rheb-y35n acts as a dominant driver oncogene.  furthermore, our in vivo xenograft data indicate that concurrent activation of both mapk and mtorc1 by rheb-y35n is crucial for its tumorigenic properties. indeed, nih3t3 cells transfected with rheb-y35n developed xenograft tumors and grew more rapidly than kras-g12d, the prototype classic oncogene.  we also examined the co-mutations occurring with rheb-y35n using the cbio database (http://www. cbioportal.org/).  mutations in some oncogenes and tumor suppressors co-occurred with rheb-y35n in uterine cancer, including kras-g12v, and inactivating mutations of phosphatase and tensin homolog and arid1a.  in contrast, rheb-y35n mutations in renal cell carcinoma were solitary, or occurred simultaneously with vhl mutation. these observations also suggest that rheb-y35n is capable of stimulating cell growth independently.  last, our in vivo combination treatments combining mtorc1 and mapk inhibitors were very effective in preventing rheb-y35n nih3t3 cell growth as xenografts, suggesting the therapeutic potential of this combination strategy for cancer patients carrying rheb-y35n mutation.   it has been shown that wt rheb activates ampk in an mtor-independent manner21 and ampk inhibits mapk activation through directly phosphorylating braf at s these findings led us to examine the interaction between rheb-y35n and ampkα. we showed that rheb-y35n impaired ampkα activation in response to aicar or nutrient depletion, leading to reduced levels of pbraf-s729 and persistent activation of the mek-erk pathway.  we also examined the possibility that increased levels of perk might attenuate ampk activation through phosphorylation of lkb1 at s428, an inhibitory site of ampk phosphorylation,25 but observed decreased levels of plkb1-s428 in rheb-y35n transfected cells compared with wt.  in addition, our analyses showed that rheb could directly bind to ampkα, to regulate its activity. this binding appears enhanced by rheb-y35n expression, suggesting that this aberrant binding may lead to inactivation of ampk activity on its usual substrates, explaining the erk1/2 activation (figure 6).  indeed, we showed that rheb-y35n had dominant effects over co-expression of rheb-wt.  collectively, these results suggest that wt rheb is essential for normal ampkα activation, and that rheb-y35n strongly inhibits the ability of ampk to be activated in response to energy stress or nutrient depletion. left, when ampk binds wt rheb and is activated by aicar or glucose starvation, braf is phosphorylated, 14-3-3 protein binds pbraf-s729 and there is inhibition of erk activation.  right, the rheb-y35n mutant outcompetes wt rheb for binding to the ampk, leading to ampk inhibition independent of nutrient depletion, reduced phosphorylation of pbraf-s729 and activation of erk by phosphorylation by braf.   full figure and legend (113k)  in summary, our results demonstrate that rheb-y35n activates both mtorc1 and mapk pathways. furthermore, rheb-y35n constitutively activates mapk pathway by regulating ampkα and leading to phosphorylation of braf, promoting cell survival and transforming of nih3t3 cells.  finally, inhibition of both mtor and mapk signals is necessary to suppress y35n-driven in vivo tumor growth.  these findings suggest that cancers with rheb-y35n mutations may be uniquely sensitive to combination treatment with rapamycin and an erk inhibitor. amino acids on the other hand signal to mtorc1 through the rag family of gtpases, by mediating the activation of mtor by rheb at the lysosome [12, 40].  our analysis of cancer genome databases, also led us to identify a recurrent point mutation in rheb (y35n), reported in rcc and in several other cancers [41, 42].  rheb is responsive to growth factors, but, in conjunction with pld1 (phospholipase d1), is also an integral part of the machinery that stimulates mtorc1 in response to amino acids [43]. tyr35 was found to maintain the high activation state of rheb by inhibiting intrinsic gtp hydrolysis, however it was also found to be required for sensitivity to the gap activity of tsc2 [47].   to assess the role of a point mutation in rheb at the conserved tyr35 site, we generated a point mutation (y35n) and transiently over expressed wild-type and mutant rheb in hek293t cells.  as rheb is a key mediator of the amino acid sensing mechanism of the cell, we examined the effect of this mutant in the presence and absence of amino acids. as expected, overexpression of mutant rheb did not alter the association of raptor or rictor, indicating the mutation does not impact mtorc1 or mtorc2 assembly, respectively (figure (figure7b7b).   figure 7 figure 7 y35n rheb mutation in ccrcc causes mtorc1 hyperactivation by resistance to tsc2 gap activity the tsc1/tsc2 complex interacts with rheb and inactivates it through the activity of a gap domain in tsc2.  thus we performed immunoprecipitation experiments to analyze the interactions of wild-type and mutant flag-tagged rheb with tsc2. using a real-time nmr-based gtpase assay, we previously found that mutation of y35 to alanine or phenylalanine disrupted this autoinhibitory mechanism and accelerated intrinsic gtp hydrolysis several fold, while simultaneously rendering it insensitive to the gap activity of tsc2 [47].  similar to the engineered y35a and y35f mutations, we found that the cancer-associated y35n rheb mutation increased the rate of intrinsic gtp hydrolysis by ~ fold, due to release of the autoinhibitory function of y35.  subsequently we tested the sensitivity of the gtpase activity of y35n rheb to the action of the tsc2 gap domain.  while the rate of gtp hydrolysis of wild-type rheb was increased 50-fold in the presence of the gap domain of tsc2, the y35n mutant exhibited complete resistance to the gap domain of tsc2 with no detectable effect on gtp hydrolysis (figure (figure7c). 7c). indeed, the equivalent positions in rheb are either already substituted in the wild-type sequence (r15 and s16), or lack a catalytic function (q64).  it is notable that while oncogenic ras mutations synergistically impair both intrinsic hydrolysis and gap sensitivity, the rheb y35n mutation enhances intrinsic hydrolysis but abolishes sensitivity to the ga overall, our results suggest that mutations in the tsc-rheb-mtor signaling axis may lead to a loss of inhibitory inputs thus conferring a survival advantage to a dividing tumor cell.   our findings have several implications for patients with rc the finding that mtor mutations are associated with worsened outcomes has prognostic relevance and suggests that this event may be a significant contributor to tumor progression.
